# Ethics Statement for All Members

Big Iron as an order values inclusivity, understanding, integrity, tolerance, and a respect for all beings. Big Iron is a collectively owned non-profit unincorporated organization. We see a dark future approaching. Thus, the resources of our organization are leveraged to benefit our members and support protecting and honoring the living earth.

Membership is open to adults of all religious, cultural, national, and ethnic backgrounds. We welcome those of any sexual identity, gender, and gender identity, including transgender, non-binary, and agender individuals. Membership is also open to those of any belief system; we have members who practice druidry along with many other faiths and perspectives, including but not limited to Buddhism, Christianity, Paganism, Animism, Shinto, and Atheism. We welcome those who are differently-abled or neurodiverse and are happy to adapt our society to meet the needs of our members. Our goal is to be an organization where every person, inclusive of identity, background, and belief, can find a home.

Big Iron recognizes and honors that each person who joins Big Iron has a unique path and unique expressions of that path. Establishing traditions worthy of Druidpunk, Big Iron encourages its members to pursue their own spiritual directions within a broad common framework, and our approach to spirituality is personal and experiential rather than dogmatic. Creativity and the quest for personal Awen – the inner light of inspiration – are among the Big Iron’s central values. Our common framework includes a daily protective practice, the Sphere of Protection, which members adapt to fit their own beliefs and ecosystems. We also share a core set of practices including our grove opening and closing rituals, initiation rituals, and celebration of the four traditional Druid holy days: the solstices and equinoxes. Our society is designed to be flexible and focus on allowing each participant to explore and adapt their life to their own ecosystem and path, honoring the diverse paths and identities that each individual brings to our order.

In line with our Masonic roots, Big Iron as an organization does not recognize the separation of church and state, since our current form of government does not. That is, while members are welcome to hold any political beliefs, we ask all of our members to think for themselves and form authentic opinions when discussing political matters of any kind in our Big Iron-sponsored spaces (Minecraft projects, Discord server). We create safe spaces for individuals of all identities, beliefs, and walks of life by maintaining a politically integrated space.

Those who perpetrate hate crimes or belong to hate groups, who commit unnecessary violent acts (e.g., acts not in defense of self or others) toward humans or the natural world, or who have been convicted of crimes that demonstrate a disregard for the well-being of others (human or non-human) do not align with the overall ethics of the organization. The Grand Grove reserves the right to review and revoke the membership of people falling into the above categories.

Our commitment to integrity and truth encompasses the transcendent and the earthly. Falsification of information upon application for membership or degree completion, as well as failing to maintain the secrecy of initiations and the inner work of the order, are grounds for dismissal/termination of membership per Grand Grove review and decision. This includes any sort of deception, including plagiarism (failing to give proper credit to or passing off the writing or ideas of others as your own).

## Big Iron Participants Ethics

Big Iron Participants, including all members of the Grand Grove, are expected to abide by the above ethics for Big Iron’s organization. Additionally, Big Iron participants should work to maintain a welcoming atmosphere for all members; promote Big Iron’s practices, curriculum, and work to members; and work for the betterment of our organization. Big Iron participants should recognize that they are one of the public faces of the organization. As such, their actions and words hold a higher weight with members and should be in line with promoting peaceful and meaningful interactions. Participants not abiding by these ethical standards will be removed from their positions.

## Big Iron Grand Grove Ethics

As leaders in the organization, Grand Grove members are held to the highest ethical standards in Big Iron. The Grand Grove are members of Big Iron who have mastered our practices and have made Big Iron a core part of their spiritual life. The Grand Grove are expected to continue to maintain our regular practices (Sphere of Protection, Holy Day celebrations, etc) as role models to our community and also be willing and able to teach these practices to our members. As the Grand Grove and leaders of our organization, the Grand Grove are expected to treat all members with respect and care, work to facilitate peaceful interactions among members, address difficulty or challenge with a calm and thoughtful presence, and work to promote Big Iron and its practices both within and beyond our community. The Grand Grove should also recognize that there is a confidentiality and discretion that comes with spiritual leadership. The Grand Grove commit to keeping in confidence spiritual experiences or conversations shared by Big Iron members, sharing only with that member’s explicit permission.

The Grand Grove should recognize that they are one of the most visible and public faces of the organization and that their actions reflect upon the organization. Thus, we ask the Grand Grove to ever conduct themselves with discretion and wisdom. The Grand Grove should be aware that their status as a Grand Grove member reflects not only in Big Iron-sponsored spaces but also in any other public-facing activities (public rituals, gatherings, social media, writings) and work to reflect and embody the above ethical standards.

If any Grand Grove member is not meeting these standards, they can be removed by a unanimous vote by the other Grand Grove members, as per our bylaws.